
[[C-Core-NOTE]]

### Conversion of Assembled Code to Machine Code Recognizable by Actual CPUs

- The assembled code, which is initially in a human-readable form of assembly language, is converted into machine code. Machine code is the low-level code that the CPU can directly recognize and execute.
- Adaptability of Assembly Code to Various CPU Architectures

The same assembly code can be adapted and converted for different CPU architectures, such as x86, ARM, etc. This involves translating the assembly instructions into the specific machine code format that each type of CPU can understand and process.
These points highlight the process of transforming high-level programming instructions into a form that can be directly executed by a computer's CPU. This process is essential in the creation of executable files, where the code is first written in a higher-level language, translated into assembly language, and then converted into the specific machine language of the target CPU architecture.

```c
int main(void) {
	int a;
	a = 3 + 4;
	printf("%d", a);
	return 0;
}
```

```assembly
00007FF75E681070 sub     rsp,28h
	int a;
	a = 3 + 4;
	printf("%d\n", a);
00007FF75E681074 mov     edx,7
00007FF75E681079 lea     rcx,[string "%d\n" (07FF75E682250h)]
00007FF75E681080 call    printf (07FF75E681010h)
	return 0;
00007FF75E681085 xor     exa,eax
}
00007FF75E681087 add     rsp,28h
00007FF75E68108B ret
```

```machine
0x00007FF75E681070    48 83 ec 28
0x00007FF75E681074    ba 07 00 00
0x00007FF75E681078    00 48 8d 0d
0x00007FF75E68107C    d0 11 00 00
0x00007FF75E681080    e8 8b ff ff
```

1. **Definition of an Executable File**
    
    - An executable file is a finite set of consecutive instructions that the CPU can recognize and perform predefined operations on. These files contain machine code, which is the lowest-level code directly executable by a computer's CPU.
2. **Execution of Machine Instructions**
    
    - The machine (or CPU) retrieves and executes instructions one by one from this continuous set of commands. The process involves reading the instructions, decoding them, and then performing the specified operations.
3. **Continuation of Command Operations Leading to Execution**
    
    - The continuous operation of these commands constitutes what is known as execution. This concept leads to higher-level abstractions like processes in computing. A process is essentially an instance of a program in execution, comprising the executing commands and the current state of the CPU.

In summary, the text explains how executable files are integral to computing, detailing how they are structured and how their contents are executed by a CPU, ultimately leading to the higher-level concept of a process in computer science.