#gdb
### Compile Your Program with Debugging Information

This option tells the compiler to include debugging information in the executable, which GDB can use to debug the program.

```bash
gcc -g main.c -o main
```

The `-g` and `-ggdb` flags are both used with GCC (GNU Compiler Collection) to include debugging information in the compiled code, but they differ slightly in terms of the format and the amount of debugging information they generate.

1. **`-g` Flag:**
    
    - The `-g` flag instructs the compiler to include standard debugging information in the output file, which is compatible with most debuggers, such as GDB.
    - This flag is generally sufficient for routine debugging, providing enough information for breakpoints, step execution, variable inspection, etc.
    - It is designed to work across various systems and debuggers, aiming for a balance between the amount of debugging information and the size of the debugged program.
2. **`-ggdb` Flag:**
    
    - The `-ggdb` flag, on the other hand, instructs the compiler to include extensive debugging information specific to GDB. It enables GDB-specific features that might not be available with the standard `-g` option.
    - This flag allows GDB to access more detailed information about the program's internals, potentially offering enhanced debugging capabilities like more intricate macro expansions, additional preprocessor macros, and more detailed information for complex data structures.
    - However, because `-ggdb` is specifically tuned for GDB, the generated debugging information may not be fully compatible with other debuggers.

In summary, if you are specifically using GDB and need advanced debugging features, `-ggdb` is the preferred option. If you want broader compatibility with different debuggers or if you only need basic debugging features, `-g` is sufficient. The choice between the two often depends on the specific requirements of your debugging session and the tools you are using.

### Step 2: Start GDB

You start GDB with your program as an argument.

```bash
gdb ./main
```

### Step 3: Set Breakpoints

```bash
(gdb) break main.c:10
```

### Step 4: Run Your Program

```bash
(gdb) run
```

### Step 5: Examine the State of Your Program 

```bash
(gdb) print variable_name
```

### Step 6: Step Through Your Program 

- To step to the next line in the current function:
```bash
(gdb) n
```

- To step into a function:
```bash
(gdb) s
```

### Step 7: Continue Execution

```bash
(gdb) continue
```

### Step 8: Quit GDB

Once you're done debugging, you can exit GDB.

```bash
(gdb) quit
```
### Additional Tips

- Use the `list` command in GDB to view the source code around the current line or a specified line.
- Use the `watch` command to set a watchpoint on a variable to stop execution whenever the variable changes.
- GDB offers many more features and commands; consult the GDB manual for more in-depth information.

---

```gdb
(gdb) p root
(gdb) display root
```